[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: We have our three.js
in our hello world three.js.
Let's take one more step of evolution
before we get out of the command line and
we start working our way into the web
where things can get more interesting.
The last thing I wanna do is we
are reading a file in one big chunk.
That's what the readFile function does.
It reads the entire file
all into one big chunk.
If it was a giant file,
that could be really slow, and also if we
needed to sort of do some stream
processing on it, like we needed to dumb
output to the browser quicker or things
like that, waiting for the entire thing to
load before we get any notification
that it's finished is not very optimal.
So, another way of going about
this would be to treat this as
loading it up with a file stream.
And that's my light introduction that
I'm gonna give you to streams in Node,
because that's another incredibly
important understanding you need to have
about, sort of, the core mechanics of
Node is how it deals with streams.
Streams are a kind of abstraction
on top of passing data
around in a highly efficient manner.
They use buffers which are highly
memory efficient, they're low on
the garbage collection threshold, and
they send the data back and forth.
Whenever I was talking about the HTTP
request and I said there was a rack and
a res, those were in an input and
output stream for a web request.
So there's a request stream,
which represents the requests
that I make to a server, and
there's a response stream,
which represents the stream of data
that I'll send back out as the response.
Well, streams are really all over Node and
they're getting more and more so.
So it's probably something that you
should start to get more familiar with.
As a very simple example,
how would we start to use streams here?
So the first thing we're gonna do
is we're not gonna call fs,readFile
all at once in one big
shot like that anymore.
In fact, we're not even gonna set up
our sequence in quite the same way,
I'll return my ASQ.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right, so the first
thing I want to do is I want to set myself
up a stream variable and
I'm gonna call fs.createReadStream.
And I need to give it the file
name to create a stream from.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now at this moment it
has not actually loaded anything from
the file.
It's not gonna start loading something
from the file until we ask it to start
pumping us some data.
And the way we're gonna do that is we're
gonna listen for events on our stream.
So, we might say stream.on,
which is listening for events,
I wanna listen for the data event.
And every time the data event fires, I'm
gonna get a chunk of data from my file.
So I will also set myself up with
a contents = "" that is empty
to start out with and
every time the data event fires,
I want to append that stuff onto
the end of my content string.
>> Kyle Simpson: Is everybody with me so
far?
So if .dataEvent fires once,
it's only gonna add once but
if it fired a thousand times, it would
out on a thousand chunks to our code.
By default the stream is
gonna run to completion.
There's ways to pause the stream and
control the streams,
it's beyond what we'll talk about.
But by default, it will run to completion
which means it'll keep going and
it'll keep firing data events up to
its maximum buffer size, it'll pull in
each chunk up to the buffer size and it'll
fire the data event, empty the stream,
do it again, it'll keep going until it's
exhausted the entire contents of the file.
Now we would like to know
when the file was finished.
So there's an event called End.
So we'd say stream.end.
And that function gets no parameters but
it just tells us that we have
finished listening for
the stream and, it's at this point,
that we could say to our a sequence
you're done and here are the contents.
We've loaded the entire
contents of our file.
Does everybody see that?
>> Kyle Simpson: Now I want to just,
for temporary purposes,
prove that the data
function is getting called.
I'm gonna put a console log
statement in here, okay?
It's just a temporary debugging step to
prove that this thing is being called.
>> Kyle Simpson: We don't need
to make any changes to 3.js,
cuz all we did was change the internals
of how we deal with the contents,
getting the contents out of the stream.
Let's go back to our command line and
say node 3.js --file = test.txt.
Oops, what did I miss?
I forgot that.
I wasn't supposed to change that.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah,
what am I doing here?
>> Kyle Simpson: Wow, that's right.
Right, what's wrong with
that returning sequence?
>> Kyle Simpson: Be just a moment,
what's it talking about here?
>> Kyle Simpson: Not loading
the right module of course.
All right, so
it called it once, waited a thousand
milliseconds, then gave us our data.
Did everybody roughly get the same
result when they tried it themselves?
Okay, let's try it, I also provide
you a test3.txt which is much bigger.
Let's try that.
If we call it with test3.text, you'll
notice that the data gets called several
times before it prints this out,
a 200K contents of our file.
Let me show it again one more
time in case you missed it.
Prints out data, data,
data, data five times and
then t a thousand milliseconds later,
it prints out the contents of that file.
So that shows you that internally the data
had to be called several times because
the contents of that file were bigger
than Node's internal buffer default size.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now we can go back and
take out that console log statement.
Now that it's no longer necessary.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
questions about the read stream?
>> Speaker 2: Can we set
the size of the chart?
>> Kyle Simpson: I believe there is a way
to change the default buffer size but
I don't actually know
off the top of my head.
I'll try to maybe think about
looking that up over a break.
I think there is a way to change it but
I don't remember how.
Usually, you wanna let Node handle that,
though.
It's pretty good at figuring that stuff
out for you but I think there is a way.